HOME 

Hello, I'm Larry.
I live in Taipei, Taiwan, where I work as a Fulbright English Teaching Assistant. I'm also a researcher with an interest in how language shapes our understanding of the world and each other.
In 2024, I received my M.A. in Applied Linguistics from the University of South Florida. Before that, I studied music at Florida State University. I've taught choir and guitar to students from elementary through high school, an experience that taught me the power of patience and clear instruction.
My background, spanning music, education, construction, and research, gives me a unique perspective on problem-solving. I've learned that meaningful innovation often happens when we connect seemingly unrelated ideas and focus on the underlying human needs. The thread connecting my experiences is a desire to understand how things work beneath the surface. I'm drawn to patterns, whether in speech, harmonies, or data.
When I'm not teaching or researching, I am usually walking in the park or buying books and never finishing them.


Teaching Philosophy
My family always put education above all else. Their “American Dream” was to go to college–a means out of poverty. Education makes a difference. Knowing a second language can directly increase salaries and even national income. However, education is about more than economics. What we gain from language learning is not just knowledge to be cashed in. It is discipline. Learning how to push past frustration and come back the next day, even when the objective feels impossible or unattainable. Education should teach us to, as Rilke put it, “try to love the questions themselves like locked rooms and like books that are written in a very foreign tongue”. We have a lot of power as teachers to shape a student's relationship to learning. For me, One bad middle school math teacher ruined the next decade of math. Good teachers should instill genuine interest and curiosity in their students.

It is in the school where most of us first learn how to work in groups. Education is a form of institutionalized socialization. Schools teach us about how we should treat each other. Classmates are our first peers. This factor of socialization is especially apt in language classrooms. We use language to communicate, and learning objectives should center around communicative purposes. Language happens in context, it is social, and it is an action. We use speech acts to get things, to control behavior, to express feelings, and to learn. We take language for granted because it is everywhere, but in language learning, we can readjust the aperture of our focus and see more clearly how language functions. Teaching pragmatics is one way to look at language in contexts. “Sorry about that!” would be fine in some contexts and rude in others. As technology continues to free us from more technical work, our ability to socialize and work together becomes our most important skill.

One of my favorite feelings as an educator is seeing the moment a student finally gets it. Those moments usually happen when the class is clear on what is being taught. Objectives should be measurable. A good curriculum sets everything up from the learning goals to the teaching practice. A well-structured lesson meets students’ needs. It builds confidence in the process. I break down objectives into component skills and then compare the list to what my students can and can’t do yet. Still, learning a language will have its frustrating moments and so, we need to teach with compassion. Motivation is one of the main determiners of second language learning achievement. Motivation to act can be explained in terms of beliefs and perceptions one has about oneself. How we assess students feeds into their self-efficacy beliefs – i.e., people’s belief in their capacity shapes whether they engage in certain tasks. Compassion allows us to see ourselves in a more positive and accurate light.

We should understand our students’ motivations to learn English. Language learning should not feel like an academic exercise. Vocabulary in textbooks does not always reflect the vocabulary students use outside of class. Language learning is a social event that requires artifacts, products, and practices from the culture. If our students play video games or watch Superhero movies, then we should include that language. In the past, I have taught music in schools where it was mandatory. Most students did not see music as important. Creating interest and motivation was my most important job. My students needed to believe and experience that what they were learning mattered. Language classes can also feel like a waste of time if we do not connect the content directly to the learner.

One of my favorite metaphors by Plato is the teacher as a midwife. Teachers are attendants to discovery and learning. We do not give language. Language is acquired through the student’s efforts. We as teachers, can make that labor difficult or easy. My goal as a teacher is to create a classroom environment conducive to learning. Not to force information from my head into theirs, but to present all the needed pieces and help them put it together themselves. We create this environment by grounding our practice in evidence-based research and fostering a culture of compassion.

Teaching Experience
My passion for language education stems from growing up in an immigrant family and witnessing firsthand the power of language learning. Throughout my academic journey, teachers have profoundly influenced my life, and I aspire to have the same positive impact on others. Below, you will find the various organizations where I have taught or volunteered.

The Fulbright English Teaching Assistant (ETA) program places scholars in classrooms abroad to assist local English teachers and engage with the community, fostering mutual understanding and cultural exchange. 

As a Fulbright ETA scholar, I represent my country, promoting educational diplomacy and contributing to global education through teaching and cultural immersion.


LEAP is a free year-long English program funded by the U.S. Department of State, emphasizing interactive learning and real-life English to prepare students from socioeconomically disadvantaged backgrounds to thrive in an increasingly global society.

As Tutoring Coordinator, I recruit and train Fulbright volunteers, manage LEAP tutoring events, and collaborate with American Spaces in Taiwan to optimize community impact.


The Department of World Languages provides foreign language instruction and culture courses at all levels to the university community in support of the internationalization of the curriculum and global and multicultural education.

As a graduate assistant, I provide practice, assistance, and resources to students learning Spanish and Chinese in the Langauge Lab.


The ESL Facilities Program provides weekly English classes for USF employees. This is an English for specific purposes program. The focus is on using English to communicate professional skills and perform profession-related activities. 

As an intern at the ESL Facilities Program, I conducted a needs analysis to identify gaps in student knowledge and then developed appropriate plans around student needs.


Guang Ming Temple provides multicultural education, serves as a center for social functions and festival activities. Guang Ming Temple, a branch of Fo Guang Shan, which is Chinese for Buddha’s Light Mountain.

At Guang Ming, I volunteer and assist with creating and collecting resources for English education classes. 


Hispanic Services Council serves as the cultural and language conduit for families who are seeking stability in the United States, alleviating the isolation felt by those who are trying to overcome language and cultural barriers to lead productive lives.

At the Hispanic Services Council, I taught English through music.


Academy Prep is a private school which provides students qualifying for need-based scholarships a rigorous middle school program coupled with ongoing graduate support.

Before becoming a Language teacher, I was music director and performer. I taught choir, guitar, and piano from kindergarten to high school.

There are many overlaps between music and language and I have always had a passion for both. While I do not teach music anymore, I still consider music and art to be a part of who I am.

M.A.
ePortfolio
This portfolio is assembled from materials generated throughout my entire MA program, including projects from individual courses, internship, and conferences.

List of projects from individual courses linked from google drive with description

Applied Linguistics | LIN 5700
Article summary and presentation
"For this assignment, you will read an original research article. In a paper (~750 words) you will provide an explanation/description/summary of the linguistic structure/feature under investigation and discuss how having knowledge of linguistics plays a crucial role in understanding the article. You will also give a 10-to-15-minute presentation on your topic at the end of the semester. Your paper should be double spaced, using 12 pt. Times New Roman font. Please number your pages and use APA format guidelines and citations."



Methods | TSL 5371
Materials Development Project
"You will be asked to choose a grammatical feature to teach and then create a unit to teach it. You will be responsible for designing four 20-minute lesson plans, one for each of the skill areas (listening, speaking, reading, and writing). The lessons can integrate skills, but the main activity of each lesson should focus on the targeted skill area. You must also provide a form of assessment. Your pedagogical unit should follow the model introduced in our textbook (see pp. 209-215 in our textbook for an example) and will include (1) an overview of your goals and the target context for your lesson, (2) a list of materials and procedures (including pre, during, and post activities), and (3) copies of all material that will be used in each lesson. The materials must be your own and original."



Curriculum | TSL 5372
Autoethnography + Final Reflection
"To help you develop your voice and identity as a teacher, in this course you will write an autoethnography. This autoethnography is a written document in which you will reflect on your own L2 learning experiences in the past, and also, in which you will consider your own role as a teacher in the classroom. This assignment consists of two written autoethnography installments; additionally, there is a final multimodal reflection that will serve as your final exam for the course."



Testing | TSL 5440
Final project
"For your final project, you will 1) develop a language test, and 2) write a paper documenting key issues for your test (e.g., purpose, specifications, validity, reliability). You may do this individually or in pairs. If you choose to work with a partner, please note that both partners are expected to be actively involved in the execution of this project, and both will receive the same grade for this assignment. More detailed information will be provided for this assignment."


Cross-cultural Issues | TSL 5525
New Cultural Experience Project
"This assignment asks you to take the role of observer-participant and to experience firsthand some cultural activity that you have never participated in before. This might mean participating in a type of social gathering that you have never experienced (i.e, a city council meeting, a monster truck show, a yoga class, a poetry slam, a drum circle, a culturally-specific festival in Tampa Bay) or attending a religious service in a spiritual tradition that is different from your own (i.e., a Catholic mass in Spanish). You can be as creative with this as you want, and I will be happy to provide you with additional suggestions if needed. You will get the most out of this assignment (and have the most fun!) if you select an activity/function that is maximally different from what you are normally used to."



Intro to Grad Studies in Linguistics | LIN 6081
Research Proposal & Poster Presentation
"You are required to work throughout the semester towards the production of a final research project. The format for this project consists of two parts: 1) a review of relevant literature (a minimum of 12 scholarly sources), and a proposal for a research study you might wish to carry out in the future. The intention of this project is to give you practical experience implementing the concepts we learn in this course

You will deliver an academic poster presentation, based on your work for the Final Paper and Research Proposal"



Grammar of American English | LIN 6675
Research Paper
"This option gives you the opportunity to pursue a research project related to grammar in English that contributes to your own research agenda. One approach is to analyze how certain grammatical/syntactic features are used in a specific register or across groups of registers, but there is latitude to explore other types of projects pending professor approval. If you plan to take this option, please meet with me early in the semester to discuss your project ideas. More detailed information will be provided separately for this assignment option."


Second Language Acquisition | LIN 6720
Research Paper
Replication corpus study


Discourse Analysis | 7885
Final Project
"In this paper you will produce an original analysis of some segment(s) of oral/written/multimodal discourse, based on a topic of personal interest. As with any empirical study, your paper will include an introduction, a literature review, a methods section, a results/findings section, and a discussion/conclusion section. Any of the empirical readings assigned in class can serve as models for your paper. Your final paper will be approximately 12-15 pages in length (for MA students)/ 15-20 pages in length (for doctoral students), will include references, will follow APA format, and may include appendices. You are encouraged to use a pre-existing sample of data or some other publicly available source. My expectation is that each of you will produce a project that you can use as a foundation for a later presentation at AMPRA-6 (Fall 2024) which will be held at USFSP, or some other relevant conference."



Internship | TSL 6945
Exit Assessment
"These two exit exams are in the form of a two-part paper (to be submitted as one document) based on a needs analysis and successful implementation of a teaching plan in the assigned class for the teaching internship. Rubrics describing the tasks in detail, as well as rubrics illustrating the grading procedures are provided in the appendices."

Research
As a language learner and teacher, I am deeply interested in best learning practices and pedagogy. My research focuses on extensive audio-visual input (movies, TV, streaming) and its application to teaching practice. 
At the Rightpath Research and Innovation Center, I train research assistants to deliver interventions, code, and collect data for bilingual vocabulary education studies. 
Additionally, I contribute to TESOLgraphics, creating 1-page infographics to make secondary research easily accessible to teachers.
CONFERENCE PRESENTATIONS
Grullon-Polanco, L. (2024, March). Pedagogical Implications of Binge Watching: Netflix and Incidental Vocabulary Acquisition. Paper presented at the TESOL International Graduate Student Forum, Tampa, Florida, USA.

Smith, S., Carlo, M., Zayas-Santiago, C., Grullon-Polanco, L. Garcia Plaza, E.,Young, D. (2024, March). Remote Synchronous Instruction to Create Rich Academic Language Environments. Panel presentation at the TESOL International Conference, Tampa, Florida, USA.

Grullon-Polanco, L. (2024, February). Streaming, Subtitles, and Wordlists. Presentation at the TESOL/Applied Linguistics Graduate Students (TALGS) Conference at East Carolina University, Greenville, North Carolina, USA.


PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Research Assistant, Rightpath Research and Innovation Center (2022—present)

Researcher Member, TESOLgraphics (2023-present)

Proposal Reviewer, TESOL International Conference (2025)

Panel Moderator, 5th Annual USF Undergraduate Humanities Research Conference (2024)


Conference Presentation Materials
Pedagogical implications of binge watching: Netflix and incidental vocabulary acquisition.
This presentation is based on a study on Netflix and lexical demand. This presentation has a focus on lexical demands of popular streaming shows, teaching practice and using corpus analysis to create wordlists from subtitles. 

The Materials Folder includes accompanying guides and files for using AntWordProfiler.

The interactive Tableau dashboard below is an example of how corpus analysis of lexical demand can be help language learners and teachers.



Developer Portfolio


Taped Chinese
Website

GitHub Repo

More Info


Fulbright Planner
Website

GitHub Repo

More Info


SABR Automated Coding
GitHub Repo

More Info

See Other Projects

Contact
Please feel free to contact me about anything!





